# Daily Note: December 09, 2025
### Study Schedule
- 2 cycles of Pomodoro everyday: Study + Space Repetition
- Monday: Distributed Systems + Software Engineering Books
- Tuesday: ML/AI + Software Engineering Blogs
- Wednesday: Leetcode (2 cycles)
  - NOTES: 1 cycle of trying, 1 cycle of studying the solution
- Thursday: System Designs (2 cycles)
  - NOTES:
    - Follow the hellointerview framework
    - Every space repetition cycle, add some depth into the answer
- Friday: Software Engineering Books + Distributed Systems
- Saturday: Software Engineering Blogs + ML/AI
- Sunday: Categorize the questions/study notes

## Table of Content

## Facts
### Reference Facts
#### PJFPerformance Podcast
- Squating for Power: 0.5s per rep
  - Vertical Jump

#### The Hundred-Page ML Book
##### Chapter 1: Introduction
- A learning machine finds a mathematical formula which, whenever applied to a collection of input, returns a desired output
- Expected content
  - What is ML?
  - What are the types of learning?
  - How supervised learning works?
  - Why models work on the new data?

##### What is ML?
- Machine Learning can be understood as a subfield of computer sciences that builds algorithms, which, to be useful, rely on collections of examples of phenomenon

##### What are the types of learning?
- Supervised learning
  - This is the most frequently used type of ML in practice
- Unsupervised learning
- Semi-supervised learning
- Reinforcement learning

#### How does supervised learning work?
- Gather input
- Convert input into feature vector -> Dataset
  - The goal is to convert the input into machine-readable data
- Choose a learning algorithm
  - Model = Dataset + Learning Algorithm
  - The goal of the learning algorithm is to find an optimal parameters for the algorithm formula to optimize the output
- Solve the optimization problem above

#### Why models work with new data?
- If the input data is randomly generated, statistically, negative data will be located not too far from each other, vise versa.
- [READ MORE]
  - Learnability
  - Probably Approximately Correct

### Working-Memory Facts
- TODO:
  - [ ] Finallize a way to sync as much as possible between work `dailynote` and personal
  - [x] Finallize a backlog for `Read Later`
## Questions
Q: [The Hundred-Page ML Book] How does supervised learning work? What is the goal of supervised learning?
A:
Source:
Person Can Help With This: N/A

Q: [The Hundred-Page ML Book] What is a feature vector?
A:
Source:
Person Can Help With This: N/A

Q: [The Hundred-Page ML Book] How does unsupervised learning work? What is the goal of unsupervised learning?
A:
Source:
Person Can Help With This: N/A

Q: [The Hundred-Page ML Book] How does semi-supervised learning work? What is the goal of semi-supervised learning?
A:
Source:
Person Can Help With This: N/A

Q: [The Hundred-Page ML Book] How does reinforcement learning work? What is the goal of reinforcement learning?
A:
Source:
Person Can Help With This: N/A

## Ideas

## Procedures
