# Daily Note: December 08, 2025

## Table of Content
- [Daily Note: December 08, 2025](#daily-note-december-08-2025)
  - [Table of Content](#table-of-content)
  - [Facts](#facts)
    - [Reference Facts](#reference-facts)
    - [Understanding Distributed Systems](#understanding-distributed-systems)
      - [Communication](#communication)
        - [Reliable Link](#reliable-link)
    - [Working-Memory Facts](#working-memory-facts)
  - [Questions](#questions)
    - [Example Question](#example-question)
  - [Ideas](#ideas)
    - [Study Schedule](#study-schedule)
  - [Procedures](#procedures)
  
## Facts
### Reference Facts
### Understanding Distributed Systems
#### Communication
- Communication between processes happen through the network stack. Message goes through the entire stack when processes send data to each other. The lower the layer, the closer it gets to the hardware. OSI framework
  - Link layer: Ethernet, close to the hardware
  - Internet layer: Above link layer, IP is the protocol at this layer
  - Transport layer: above internet layer, TCP is the protocol at this layer. TCP is built ontop of IP
  - Application layer: the highest layer in the stack. Applications are usually built around this layer. Main protocol is HTTP/HTTPS
- Expected content in this part:
  - How to build reliable protocol?
  - How to add encryption?
  - DNS
  - How services can expose their API

##### Reliable Link 
- TCP is the protocol built on top of Internet Protocol(IP). 
- This protocol guarantees messages are sent in order and has a mechanism to avoid overwhelming the receivers via implementing stability patterns
- Expected content in this part
  - How is TCP reliable?
  - TCP lifecycle
  - Flow control
    - This is a back-off mechanism to avoid overwhelming the receiver
  - Congestion control
    - This mechanism avoids overwheling the underlying network
  - UDP - Custom Protocol

### Working-Memory Facts
- TODO:
  - [x] Finallize the structure for `Brag Books` files
  - [x] Finallize the structure for `NonFiction Books`
  - [ ] Finallize a way to sync as much as possible between work `dailynote` and personal

## Questions
### Example Question
Q: [Undestanding Distributed Systems] What is OSI model?
A:
Source:
Person Can Help With This: N/A

Q: [Undestanding Distributed Systems] What are the differences between `Flow Control` and `Congestion Control`?
A:
Source:
Person Can Help With This: N/A

Q: [Undestanding Distributed Systems] What are the difference between UDP and TCP?
A:
Source:
Person Can Help With This: N/A

## Ideas
### Study Schedule
- 2 cycles of Pomodoro everyday: Study + Space Repetition
- Monday: Distributed Systems + Software Engineering Books
- Tuesday: ML/AI + Software Engineering Blogs
- Wednesday: Leetcode (2 cycles)
  - NOTES: 1 cycle of trying, 1 cycle of studying the solution
- Thursday: System Designs (2 cycles)
  - NOTES:
    - Follow the hellointerview framework
    - Every space repetition cycle, add some depth into the answer
- Friday: Software Engineering Books + Distributed Systems
- Saturday: Software Engineering Blogs + ML/AI
- Sunday: Categorize the questions/study notes

## Procedures
