# Daily Note: December 15, 2025
### Study Schedule
- 2 cycles of Pomodoro everyday: Study + Space Repetition
- Monday: Distributed Systems + Software Engineering Books
- Tuesday: ML/AI + Software Engineering Blogs
- Wednesday: Software Engineering Books + Distributed Systems
- Thursday: Software Engineering Blogs + ML/AI
- Friday: System Designs (2 cycles)
  - NOTES:
    - Follow the hellointerview framework
    - Every space repetition cycle, add some depth into the answer
- Saturday: Leetcode (2 cycles)
  - NOTES: 1 cycle of trying, 1 cycle of studying the solution
- Sunday: Categorize the questions/study notes

## Table of Content

## Facts
### Reference Facts
#### Understanding Distributed Systems
##### Secure Link
- TCP doesn't provide a secure mechanism to send message over the network. All messages are sent as plain text
  - Any middleman can see the content of the message and possibly interrupt the message content
- Transport Layer Security(TLS) solves the above solution -> This protocol is built ontop of TCP
- TLS provides: `encryption`, `authentication`, `integrity`
- Expected content:
  - TLS characteristics
  - TCP Handshake
##### Discovery
- TCP and TLS provide reliable and secure way for processes to connect to each other
- Domain Name System(DNS) provides a way for processes to connect to each other
  - Any type of clients will follow the same protocol
- DNS is distributed, hierarchical and eventually consistenty key-value store
- DNS uses/used UDP
- Expected Content
  - DNS algorithms
  - DNS characteristic

#### Pragmatic Programmer
##### Pragmatic Approach
- There are tips/tricks/processes that are universal to software development but rarely documented
- Expected Content
  - [IMPORTANT] Essensce of Good Design - everything follows this
  - DRY - this part talks about `duplication` and `orthoganality`
  - Reversibility - shows techniques that help maintain the project in the fast pace environment
  - Trace Bullets - talks about a development style that allows gathering requirements, test designs and implement code at the same time
  - Domain Language - higher level language
  - Estimating - shows how to estimate time and resource

### Working-Memory Facts

## Questions
Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How does TLS do encryption?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>

Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How does TLS do authentication?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>

Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How does TLS provide integrity?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>

Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How does TCP handshake work?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>

Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How is DNS distributed?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>

Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How is DNS hierarchical?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>

Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How is DNS eventually consistent?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>

Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How is DNS hierarchical?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>

Q: [Understanding Distributed Systems] How does DNS use UDP?
A: <LIST THE ANSWER>
Source: <ADD THE SOURCE>
Person Can Help With This: <LIST ALL THE NAMES>
## Ideas

## Procedures
